### Part 1

https://consensys.net/blog/blockchain-explained/zero-knowledge-proofs-starks-vs-snarks/

###### Q1. Explain in 2-4 sentences why SNARK requires a trusted setup while STARK doesn’t.

Elliptic curve cryptography utilizes a hidden parameter which requires an initial secret.
This secret can be used to create false transactions so it must be destroyed to make the network secure.
False proofs through the method above would be undetectable.

###### Q2. Name two more differences between SNARK and STARK proofs.

STARKs are based on a hashing mechanism while SNARKs utilize elliptic curve cryptography.
STARKs cost approximately 4x as much gas and have larger proofs compared to SNARKs.
https://consensys.net/blog/blockchain-explained/zero-knowledge-proofs-starks-vs-snarks/

### Part 2

##### 2.

###### Q1. What does the circuit in HelloWorld.circom do?

Checks that the output is the multiplication of the inputs.

###### Q2. Lines 7-12 of compile-HelloWorld.sh download a file called powersOfTau28_hez_final_10.ptau for Phase 1 trusted setup. Read more about how this is generated here, here, and here. What is a Powers of Tau ceremony? Explain why this is important in the setup of zk-SNARK applications.

This is important because it makes it much more likely that the "master key" is irretrievable since each contributor to the ceremony can destroy their own toxic value to make it so.

###### Q3. Line 24 of compile-HelloWorld.sh makes a random entropy contribution as a Phase 2 trusted setup. How are Phase 1 and Phase 2 trusted setup ceremonies different from each other?

Phase 2 makes Phase 1 more balanced as it removes the ability for the final participant to influence key properties.

##### 3.

###### Q2. Try to run compile-Multiplier3-groth16.sh. You should encounter an error[T3001] with the circuit as is. Explain what the error means and how it arises.

error[T3001]: Non quadratic constraints are not allowed! "a _ b _ c" is not a quadratic expression.

##### 4.

###### Q1. You will encounter an error zkey file is not groth16 if you just change snarkjs groth16 setup to snarkjs plonk setup. Resolve this error and answer the following question - How is the process of compiling with PLONK different from compiling with Groth16?

No trusted setup is needed for PLONK as it is Universal.

###### Q2. What are the practical differences between Groth16 and PLONK? Hint: compare and contrast the resulted contracts and running time of unit tests (see Q5 below) from the two protocols.

PLONK is more complex than Groth16.

### Part 3

##### 1.

###### Q1. 'contracts/circuits/LessThan10.circom' implements a circuit that verifies an input is less than 10 using the LessThan template. Study how the template is used in this circuit. What does the 32 in Line 9 stand for?

32 represents the number of bits the input can have.

###### Q2. What are the possible outputs for the LessThan template and what do they mean respectively? (If you cannot figure this out by reading the code alone, feel free to compile the circuit and test with different input values.)

Possible outputs for LessThan are booleans values; true and false.

##### 2.

###### Q2. You can run npm run test:fullProof while inside the zkPuzzles directory to test your modified circuit. You are expected to encounter an error. Record the error, resolve it by modifying project/zkPuzzles/scripts/compile-circuits.sh, and explain why it has occurred and what you did to solve the error.

The test encounters an error because the circuit is too big for the Power of Tau ceremony generated by PLONK.
I solved the error by converting to Groth16 with a trusted setup which generated a smaller Power of Tau ceremony.
